Israeli forces have again targeted a un
run School Sheltering displaced
Palestinians killing 16 people and
wounding at least 50 others this attack
happened at the alnus serat refugee camp
in central Gaza the number of victims is
overwhelming gaza's largest remaining
health facility the alaka hospital Hamas
has rejected Israel's claims that the
Army targeted fighters who are operating
near the school well let's go straight
to hanim Mahmud our correspondent who
joins us now from out inside the alaa
hospital in derl Bala in central Gaza
honey as we were saying earlier the
death toll from that attack has been
rising you're outside the hospital where
so many were taken how is the facility
holding
up well right now just given the past N9
months of too much of pressure on this
remaining health facility in the Central
Area the situations inside are quite
dire not only from the influx of
injuries but also from the large number
of evacuates and displaced families are
literally filling up the corridors of
the hospital just making the job of the
medical staff and volunteers here
medical missions and and uh and and
largely people who are here to support
and help quite difficult because these
people the displac families across the G
STP are kept pouring into the Central
Area more recently from Rafa City and
Khan Unice and just within the past half
an hour we get confirmed reports of more
people more displaced families are uh
Crossing waza all the way to the central
area this is definitely going to put
more pressure on this health facility
but other than this the tragedy is the
number the large number of casualties
brought to the hospital here is the kind
of injuries that they are experiencing
and the difficulties that the medical
staff is always uh having here to
intervene properly to provide a proper
medical uh uh medical intervention to
save lifeare for the most part here
doctors just given how exhausted they
are the shortage the acute shortage of
medical supplies they just make their
job extra extra hard just to get more a
better picture and better context of
what's going inside the hospital uh of
some of the cases that are experiencing
a a a trauma severe trauma particularly
among vulnerable group here at the
hospital we're joined by Dr Ahmed yusf
drmed Yu is an internal medicine and
pediatrician from mid Global to tell us
more about what's going on inside with
these cases Dr Ahmed thank you so much
for joining us and let me start off by
asking just give us a a picture an
assessment of what are the situations
inside the hospital so currently the
healthc care system is completely
overwhelmed um because of what appears
to be a a complete targeting of all the
healthcare infrastructure uh in in this
small strip of land with 2 and a half
million people in it um the the few
hospitals left functioning are uh in in
a in a state of chaos right every few
hours uh we are uh bombarded with with
ambulances bringing in uh people in
pieces and and uh you know uh women with
their uh abdomen eviscerated little
children with shle injuries uh men Dead
on Arrival uh we we have a an
environment where along with this the
chaos of emotional families uh who have
just pulled their families from the
rubble coming in uh emotionally
distraught traumatized emotionally and
psychologically what they just
experienced uh and and then beyond this
you have medical staff who are part of
this community who who who the first
question they ask is where was the
bombing is this is this my family member
uh which neighborhood is the first
question you hear uh and often because
of how uh small the community feels uh
uh they're treating their family this is
every everybody here is family and so so
beyond the physical impact and the and
the uh physical trauma we're seeing a
component of emotional stress that I
can't couldn't have imagined
let's talk more specific about cases
that you have been dealing with since
your arrival to the hospital to
volunteer inside this all the remaining
Health Facilities like walk us through
some of the cases are experiencing
traumatizing condition particularly
among children and women uh this is
especially poignant and and hard to
speak about you know given what happened
yesterday there was a a bombing of one
of the schools and we
had child after child after child get B
into the resuscitation room uh with
different extents of of traumatic injury
uh standing over one child intubated
with a depressed scull fracture uh
another with a shaftal injury probably
10 years old uh uh so severe that we
could see an exposed kidney and likely a
transected spinal cord uh uh trying to
rush them to the o to to salvage what we
could uh and then in the backdrop as as
a pediatrician I see small children
sitting in the corner with lesser
physical trauma injuries but but no
doubt witnessing death and destruction
and dying in a way that that their
little brains and could never be be be
capable of coping with and so uh we
spoke about this briefly but but the
psychological impact beyond the physical
impact will be will be generational and
so uh if I go into the uh psychiatric
understanding of epigenetics when we
talk about exposing small children with
plastic brains mean meaning the ability
to morph and change to to this level of
stress physiologic stress from
adrenaline and and stress hormone you
know we we sit here and we hear the hums
above us of drones which can often mean
another attack is coming and the
children they they are completely aware
of this and they look up in fear and
they startled by any loud noise the the
effect on the unraveling of DNA and the
epigenetic uh research shows us and
tells us that this is often permanently
open and that the impact can even be
carried generationally in their children
the trauma doesn't just happen in the
three or four year-olds now it happens
in their children and their children
after them and so this would take
Decades of therapy and and cognitive
behavioral therapy try to unravel and
unwrap and the worst part is we're we're
still in it so there's no opportunity to
deal with psychologic and psychiatric
trauma when we're still dealing with the
physical trauma the lack of surviving
today finding clean water finding enough
medication to to to survive today so
thinking about the long-term effect
seems silly except that you watch these
kids eyes and that's that's all I can
think about is is even the ones who
survive uh will experience trauma
forever Dr Ahmed I know this is your
first time visiting Gaza and being in
one of its Health Facilities but I know
this is not your first time being part
of medical missions worldwide how are
you can you draw on your personal
experience what's the difference if we
set for a compare and contrast matter
here what what is the difference yeah I
I I've had the opportunity to work with
Med Global and other organizations and
and treating other Refugee groups uh and
medical missions around around the world
and and I will say there is nothing like
this I've been in fields and Greece
taking care of Syrian refugees and there
were hang in refugees in Bangladesh
where it was those were extremely
difficult situations the difference
between those things and this is that
this is a killing box there's no way to
escape and the ongoing trauma daily
every hour uh is is unimaginable we sat
as Physicians and family members and
people home back home in the states
where I'm from and we watched things on
TV and saw some news clips from from
news agencies like yours or social media
uh and and we cried and we were worried
and that's what was the impetus for me
to come and when I landed here from the
moment I landed and I saw a level of
Devastation I could have never ever have
imagined it based on what I had seen the
the videos and these interviews never do
it justice uh the blood on my hands and
the the eyes I have closed for the final
time of patients on the floor because
they don't have stretches and medication
the The Scream dreams of horror from
from mothers who have lost their
children I it will it will you
know it'll be with me
forever what's urgently needed inside
the hospital now just to I know it's too
much going on inside the house with the
lack of medical supplies exhaustion of
medical staff as well but to save lives
what's needed right
now the bleeding has to stop the bombs
have to stop and access to all of
humanitarian have to be allowed you know
if there's any doubt from anybody
whether or not humanitarian Aid has been
allowed I can promise you the answer is
no I was restricted I had multiple
suitcases of many wonderful people in
America who knew that something was
going on and tried to donate and help
with medical supplies and I wasn't
allowed to bring anything except a
suitcase the hospital is empty of the
supplies need to take care of the death
and dying if I could say one last thing
that I think is important to understand
in terms of the greater scope of what's
happening when we heard the numbers of
how many had died di 16,000 children and
35 45 45,000 other people civilians
being killed in this the the number is
underestimated and the reason I say this
is as a medical professional this ICU
where I work today is full of dka
patients diabetic patients who get a
very treatable disease but they are
dying of the most simple thing cuz the
insulin is unavailable because they're
not allowed to bring it in and
Refrigeration is gone there are people
dying of chronic as many amputees as
they are from the trauma there's
amputees of diabetes uncontrolled and
these people will be permanently
disabled after for the numbers are are
vastly high I would say four five six
times higher easily let alone the ones
who will die in the decades coming from
both the psychiatric trauma and the
physical disabilities Associated what's
happened in the last N9 months what they
need in the hospital is what they need
in the hospital is the bombing to stop
and some level of stability and flow of
humanitarian Aid and medical supplies Dr
ahed thank you so much for your Insight
thank you so as we heard from Dr Ahmed
the description horrific description of
of what's going on at the hospital here
with the the some of the cases that are
quite treatable but people are dying
here at the record number because the
lack of medical supplies and the
inability to intervene and to save life
this is the only remaining health
facility here but soon enough it's going
to be pushed out of services given how
difficult the situations inside of it
honey Mahmud they're showing us what
life is like on the ground right now in
Central Gaza thank you
hone make sure to subscribe to our
Channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer